In this video we'll take a look at I because the storage concepts and we'll learn how I suppose storage
solutions can be used to deliver VMI fast data stores.
So here we see the different components of an ice Gazi storage array.
And I suppose he is really just one of the many options of storage arrays that we have available.
We could do a fiber channel storage array or we could do and eFax or Fiber Channel over ethernet but
for the moment let's just focus in on ice scuzzy specifically And let's take a look at the components
of the storage array itself.
And so let's get rid of the VSE fair side of our picture here and focus specifically on the network
and the array components.
Right.
So here we see connecting to the storage array We've got anything to switch right and that's the type
of network that we use for eyes because he is just a standard Ethernet network.
So we've got this ethernet network connectivity here that we use to connect our ESX hosts to the storage
array.
And those ethernet switches connect to something called Storage processors on the storage array.
And the storage processors are really the brains of the operation for the ice because the storage array
right they provide processing horsepower as well as connectivity.
That's how the I suppose the storage array connects to that either network.
And then of course within the ice Cozi storage array you know we've got storage right we've got disk
space.
So here we see our disk aggregate.
These are essentially just think of it as a shelf of physical desks and that's all of the disk space
that we have available within that storage array.
And if we want to take all of that aggregated disk space and carve it up into smaller chunks.
That's the purpose of a logical unit number or lun.
All right so Lund's are used to simply divide up that big aggregate of storage space into smaller chunks
called Lunts.
And that's what we're really going to utilize to create our VM EF-S data stores.
So if we go back here a little bit in our slide and we take a look at the ESX host what we're eventually
going to accomplish here through a variety of different options.
Look at the different ways like software I because your hardware I scuzzy But what we want to accomplish
is we want to allow the ESX I host to get visibility to these Lunds we want to allow the ESX host to
know that those loans exist and to be able to create VM fast data stores on them.
Right.
So the network is really just a means to an end.
And in this way I suppose the fiber channel fiber channel over ether net they're all very similar.
They just have different networks but they're essentially delivering the same service and that service
is storage space in the form of ones that can be formatted with the VM afast file system and use to
store virtual machine files.